DENO.md, before:

# Deno Support for Email Client NestJS

This project now supports deployment using Deno and deno deployctl. This document explains how to use the Deno integration and the compatibility approach taken.

## Prerequisites

1. Install Deno:
   ```bash
   # macOS, Linux
   curl -fsSL https://deno.land/x/install/install.sh | sh
   
   # Windows (PowerShell)
   irm https://deno.land/install.ps1 | iex
   ```

2. Install deployctl:
   ```bash
   deno install --allow-read --allow-write --allow-env --allow-net --allow-run --no-check -r -f https://deno.land/x/deploy/deployctl.ts
   ```

3. Log in to Deno Deploy:
   ```bash
   deployctl login
   ```

## Local Development with Deno

To run the application locally using Deno:

```bash
# Run in standard mode
deno task start

# Run in watch mode for development
deno task dev
```

This will start a minimal version of the application that is compatible with Deno. Note that the Deno version uses a streamlined module structure that avoids certain Node.js-specific dependencies.

## Deployment to Deno Deploy

To deploy the application to Deno Deploy:

```bash
deno task deploy
```

Alternatively, you can use deployctl directly:

```bash
deployctl deploy --project=email-client-nestjs --entrypoint=src/deno-main.ts
```

## Configuration

The Deno version of the application uses environment variables for configuration. You can set these in the Deno Deploy dashboard or locally using the `.env` file.

### Key Differences in Deno Version

1. **Minimal Module Structure**: The Deno version uses `DenoMinimalAppModule` instead of the full `AppModule` to avoid Node.js-specific dependencies.

2. **Cache Implementation**: A custom in-memory cache implementation is used instead of `cache-manager` which is not fully compatible with Deno.

3. **Import Maps**: The `deno.json` file contains import maps that redirect certain Node.js modules to Deno-compatible alternatives.

4. **Limited Features**: Some features available in the Node.js version may be limited or unavailable in the Deno version due to compatibility constraints.

## Compatibility Notes

### What Works
- Basic API endpoints
- Configuration via environment variables
- Rate limiting
- API documentation (Swagger and Scalar)

### What Doesn't Work
- Redis caching (replaced with in-memory cache)
- Some Node.js-specific modules and features

## Troubleshooting

If you encounter issues with Deno compatibility:

1. Check the console for specific error messages
2. Ensure you're using the latest version of Deno
3. If you see import errors, you may need to update the import maps in `deno.json`
4. For deployment issues, verify your Deno Deploy authentication

The Deno configuration is defined in the following files:

- `deno.json`: Contains Deno-specific configuration, import maps, and tasks
- `deployctl.json`: Contains deployment configuration for Deno Deploy
- `src/deno-main.ts`: Deno-compatible entry point for the NestJS application

### Import Maps

The `deno.json` file includes import maps for Node.js modules and npm packages. This allows Deno to resolve imports correctly:

```json
"imports": {
  "@nestjs/common": "npm:@nestjs/common@11.1.5",
  "crypto": "node:crypto",
  "bcrypt": "npm:bcrypt@5.1.1"
  // ... other imports
}
```

### Auto-Installation of npm Packages

The `deno.json` file includes the `"nodeModulesDir": "auto"` setting, which enables automatic installation of npm packages when they are imported. This simplifies dependency management when running with Deno.

## Environment Variables

When running in Deno Deploy, you'll need to set up environment variables through the Deno Deploy dashboard. The following environment variables are used:

- `PORT`: The port to listen on (defaults to 8000)
- `SESSION_SECRET`: Secret for session management
- `DENO_ENV`: Set to 'production' for production environments

## Limitations

The Deno version has some limitations compared to the Node.js version:

1. Some Node.js-specific features are simplified or mocked
2. Database access through Prisma requires special handling in Deno
3. Some npm packages may not be fully compatible with Deno's npm compatibility layer

## Troubleshooting

If you encounter issues with the Deno deployment:

1. When running locally with `--unstable-sloppy-imports` flag, you don't need to add `.ts` extensions to imports
2. Verify that all required npm packages are listed in the `imports` section of `deno.json`
3. For Node.js built-in modules like `crypto`, use the `node:` prefix in the import map (e.g., `"crypto": "node:crypto"`)
4. Make sure environment variables are properly configured in Deno Deploy
5. If npm packages are missing, ensure `"nodeModulesDir": "auto"` is set in `deno.json`
6. Check the Deno Deploy logs for specific error messages
7. The first run may take some time as Deno downloads and installs all npm dependencies

Commit message:

docs: add instructions for running app directly with Deno CLI

DENO.md, after:

# Deno Support for Email Client NestJS

This project now supports deployment using Deno and deno deployctl. This document explains how to use the Deno integration and the compatibility approach taken.

## Prerequisites

1. Install Deno:
   ```bash
   # macOS, Linux
   curl -fsSL https://deno.land/x/install/install.sh | sh
   
   # Windows (PowerShell)
   irm https://deno.land/install.ps1 | iex
   ```

2. Install deployctl:
   ```bash
   deno install --allow-read --allow-write --allow-env --allow-net --allow-run --no-check -r -f https://deno.land/x/deploy/deployctl.ts
   ```

3. Log in to Deno Deploy:
   ```bash
   deployctl login
   ```

## Local Development with Deno

To run the application locally using Deno:

```bash
# Run in standard mode
deno task start

# Run in watch mode for development
deno task dev
```

You can also run the application directly with the Deno CLI:

```bash
deno run --allow-net --allow-env --allow-read --unstable-sloppy-imports ./src/deno-main.ts
```

Note: The `--unstable-sloppy-imports` flag is required to handle imports without file extensions, which is common in Node.js/TypeScript projects but not standard in Deno.

This will start a minimal version of the application that is compatible with Deno. Note that the Deno version uses a streamlined module structure that avoids certain Node.js-specific dependencies.

## Deployment to Deno Deploy

To deploy the application to Deno Deploy:

```bash
deno task deploy
```

Alternatively, you can use deployctl directly:

```bash
deployctl deploy --project=email-client-nestjs --entrypoint=src/deno-main.ts
```

## Configuration

The Deno version of the application uses environment variables for configuration. You can set these in the Deno Deploy dashboard or locally using the `.env` file.

### Key Differences in Deno Version

1. **Minimal Module Structure**: The Deno version uses `DenoMinimalAppModule` instead of the full `AppModule` to avoid Node.js-specific dependencies.

2. **Cache Implementation**: A custom in-memory cache implementation is used instead of `cache-manager` which is not fully compatible with Deno.

3. **Import Maps**: The `deno.json` file contains import maps that redirect certain Node.js modules to Deno-compatible alternatives.

4. **Limited Features**: Some features available in the Node.js version may be limited or unavailable in the Deno version due to compatibility constraints.

## Compatibility Notes

### What Works
- Basic API endpoints
- Configuration via environment variables
- Rate limiting
- API documentation (Swagger and Scalar)

### What Doesn't Work
- Redis caching (replaced with in-memory cache)
- Some Node.js-specific modules and features

## Troubleshooting

If you encounter issues with Deno compatibility:

1. Check the console for specific error messages
2. Ensure you're using the latest version of Deno
3. If you see import errors, you may need to update the import maps in `deno.json`
4. For deployment issues, verify your Deno Deploy authentication

The Deno configuration is defined in the following files:

- `deno.json`: Contains Deno-specific configuration, import maps, and tasks
- `deployctl.json`: Contains deployment configuration for Deno Deploy
- `src/deno-main.ts`: Deno-compatible entry point for the NestJS application

### Import Maps

The `deno.json` file includes import maps for Node.js modules and npm packages. This allows Deno to resolve imports correctly:

```json
"imports": {
  "@nestjs/common": "npm:@nestjs/common@11.1.5",
  "crypto": "node:crypto",
  "bcrypt": "npm:bcrypt@5.1.1"
  // ... other imports
}
```

### Auto-Installation of npm Packages

The `deno.json` file includes the `"nodeModulesDir": "auto"` setting, which enables automatic installation of npm packages when they are imported. This simplifies dependency management when running with Deno.

## Environment Variables

When running in Deno Deploy, you'll need to set up environment variables through the Deno Deploy dashboard. The following environment variables are used:

- `PORT`: The port to listen on (defaults to 8000)
- `SESSION_SECRET`: Secret for session management
- `DENO_ENV`: Set to 'production' for production environments

## Limitations

The Deno version has some limitations compared to the Node.js version:

1. Some Node.js-specific features are simplified or mocked
2. Database access through Prisma requires special handling in Deno
3. Some npm packages may not be fully compatible with Deno's npm compatibility layer

## Troubleshooting

If you encounter issues with the Deno deployment:

1. When running locally with `--unstable-sloppy-imports` flag, you don't need to add `.ts` extensions to imports
2. Verify that all required npm packages are listed in the `imports` section of `deno.json`
3. For Node.js built-in modules like `crypto`, use the `node:` prefix in the import map (e.g., `"crypto": "node:crypto"`)
4. Make sure environment variables are properly configured in Deno Deploy
5. If npm packages are missing, ensure `"nodeModulesDir": "auto"` is set in `deno.json`
6. Check the Deno Deploy logs for specific error messages
7. The first run may take some time as Deno downloads and installs all npm dependencies
